investor_demo/README.md, before:

# Nereus - Investor Demo Dashboards

## Overview

Interactive Streamlit dashboards for the **Nereus provenance-first blue finance platform** (powered by MARIS + Semantica), designed for investor-facing demonstrations. Dark-mode layout with professional financial styling.

**Four operating modes:**

- **v4 (Global Scaling Platform - Latest)** - Registry-driven dashboard spanning 9 MPA sites across 4 ocean basins with a $1.62B combined portfolio. 6 tabs: Portfolio Overview, Intelligence Brief, Ask Nereus (GraphRAG), Scenario Lab, Site Scout, TNFD Compliance. All sites discovered dynamically from `examples/*_case_study.json`. Tier-aware feature gating (Gold/Silver/Bronze).
- **v3 (Intelligence Platform)** - Multi-tab dashboard that makes the P0-P4 backend infrastructure visible and interactive. 5 tabs: Intelligence Brief, GraphRAG Chat, Scenario Lab, Site Scout, TNFD Compliance. Dual-mode operation (Live/Demo) on every tab.
- **v2 (Live)** - Single-scroll dashboard with Neo4j knowledge graph, FastAPI query engine, and interactive graph explorer. Users can ask natural-language questions and see provenance chains rendered in real time.
- **v1 (Static)** - Standalone mode powered by a pre-computed JSON bundle. No external services required - ideal for offline demos or when zero-downtime is critical.

### Dashboard Comparison

| Version | Sites | Tabs | Port | Launch |
|---------|-------|------|------|--------|
| v4 | 9 (auto-discovered) | 6 | 8504 | `./launch.sh v4` |
| v3 | 2 | 5 | 8503 | `./launch.sh v3` |
| v2 | 2 | 2 | 8501 | `./launch.sh v2` |
| v1 | 1 (static) | 1 | 8500 | `./launch.sh v1` |

## Quick Start

### v4 - Global Scaling Platform (Latest)

Requires Neo4j and the MARIS API server for Live mode, or runs standalone in Demo mode. See the [root README](../README.md#nereus-live-query-system) for full backend setup.

```bash
# Using the unified launcher (recommended):
./launch.sh v4

# Or manually:
# 1. Ensure Neo4j is running and the graph is populated (v4: 9 sites)
python scripts/populate_neo4j_v4.py

# 2. Start the API server (in one terminal)
uvicorn maris.api.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000

# 3. Start the v4 dashboard (in another terminal)
cd investor_demo
streamlit run streamlit_app_v4.py --server.port 8504
```

The dashboard opens at `http://localhost:8504`. Toggle between Live and Demo modes in the sidebar. In Demo mode, no external services are required. All 9 MPA sites are discovered dynamically from case study files.

### v3 - Intelligence Platform

```bash
./launch.sh v3
# Or manually:
cd investor_demo
streamlit run streamlit_app_v3.py --server.port 8503
```

The dashboard opens at `http://localhost:8503`. Toggle between Live and Demo modes in the sidebar.

### v2 - Single-Scroll Dashboard

```bash
./launch.sh v2
# Or manually:
cd investor_demo
streamlit run streamlit_app_v2.py
```

The dashboard opens at `http://localhost:8501`. If the API is unreachable, the Ask Nereus panel falls back to precomputed responses automatically.

### v1 - Static Mode

```bash
./launch.sh v1
# Or manually:
cd investor_demo
pip install -r requirements.txt
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```

**Data source:** The bundle at `demos/context_graph_demo/cabo_pulmo_investment_grade_bundle.json`. If missing, run the notebook at `demos/context_graph_demo/cabo_pulmo_investment_grade.ipynb` to generate it.

### Environment Configuration

Copy the template and add your LLM API key:

```bash
cp ../.env.example ../.env
# Edit ../.env: set MARIS_LLM_API_KEY and MARIS_API_KEY
```

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `MARIS_LLM_API_KEY` | API key for your LLM provider (DeepSeek, Claude, or OpenAI) |
| `MARIS_API_KEY` | Bearer token for authenticating with the MARIS API |

> The `.env` file contains secrets (API keys, database passwords) and is excluded from git via `.gitignore`. Never commit it. See `.env.example` for all available settings.

---

## Data Provenance

Every number displayed in the dashboard traces back to curated, DOI-backed source data. The dashboard does not generate or infer financial figures - it renders pre-computed and graph-queried values that originate from six curated datasets:

| Data Source | File | What It Provides to the Dashboard |
|-------------|------|-----------------------------------|
| **Document Registry** | `.claude/registry/document_index.json` | 195 peer-reviewed papers (DOI, title, year, evidence tier) |
| **Cabo Pulmo Case Study** | `examples/cabo_pulmo_case_study.json` | Site metadata, NEOLI assessment, ecosystem service values ($29.27M ESV), biomass recovery (4.63x), species data, trophic network |
| **Bridge Axiom Templates** | `schemas/bridge_axiom_templates.json` | 16 axioms with translation coefficients and DOI-backed evidence |
| **Entity Definitions** | `data/semantica_export/entities.jsonld` | 14 JSON-LD entities (Species, Habitats, Financial Instruments, Frameworks) |
| **Curated Relationships** | `data/semantica_export/relationships.json` | 15 cross-domain edges with quantification and mechanism |
| **Investment-Grade Bundle** | `demos/context_graph_demo/cabo_pulmo_investment_grade_bundle.json` | Pre-computed Monte Carlo results, risk scenarios, framework alignment (used by v1 static mode) |

The v4 and v3 live modes query through the Neo4j graph (populated by `scripts/populate_neo4j_v4.py` for 9 sites). The v2 live mode uses the same graph. The v1 static mode reads directly from the investment-grade bundle JSON.

**Site portfolio:** The v4 platform covers 9 MPA sites across 4 ocean basins with a combined $1.62B portfolio. Each site has a dedicated case study JSON in `examples/` and is auto-discovered by the dashboard via `get_all_sites()` in `shared.py`. Site characterization tiers (Gold/Silver/Bronze) control which features are available per site. See the [Developer Guide](../docs/developer_guide.md#calibration-site-model) for details on adding new sites.

---

## Dashboard Architecture

### v4 Tab Structure (registry-driven, dark-mode)

| Tab | Content |
|-----|---------|
| **Portfolio Overview** | Grid of all 9 MPA sites with ESV, asset rating, habitat type, country, and characterization tier indicators |
| **Intelligence Brief** | Per-site KPIs (4 expandable cards), investment thesis, provenance chain graph, axiom evidence table, valuation composition, Monte Carlo risk profile |
| **Ask Nereus (GraphRAG)** | Split-panel: chat (60%) + reasoning pipeline (40%) showing CLASSIFY -> QUERY -> SYNTHESIZE -> VALIDATE steps with Cypher display, confidence breakdown, and knowledge graph subgraph visualization |
| **Scenario Lab** | Interactive Monte Carlo with site-aware axiom chains, 4 parameter sliders (carbon price, habitat loss, tourism growth, fisheries change), overlay histogram, tornado sensitivity chart |
| **Site Scout** | Deferred placeholder (pipeline ready, dashboard pending) |
| **TNFD Compliance** | TNFD LEAP disclosure with alignment scoring for all 9 sites, per-pillar breakdown (Governance, Strategy, Risk/Impact, Metrics/Targets), gap analysis, download buttons |

**v4 Sidebar:** Mode toggle (Live/Demo), service health panel, site selector (all 9 sites), scenario slider, system metadata.

**Architecture notes:**
- Dynamic site discovery via `get_all_sites()` in `shared.py` - scans `examples/*_case_study.json`
- `LEAPGeneratorV4` auto-discovers all case study files for TNFD disclosure generation
- v4 precomputed responses provide demo fallback when API is offline
- Tier-aware feature gating: Gold sites get full Monte Carlo and provenance; Silver/Bronze get progressively simpler views

### v3 Tab Structure (multi-tab, dark-mode)

| Tab | Content |
|-----|---------|
| **Intelligence Brief** | KPI strip (4 expandable cards), investment thesis, provenance chain graph, axiom evidence table, valuation composition, Monte Carlo risk profile |
| **Ask Nereus (GraphRAG)** | Split-panel: chat (60%) + reasoning pipeline (40%) showing CLASSIFY -> QUERY -> SYNTHESIZE -> VALIDATE steps with Cypher display, confidence breakdown, and integrated graph explorer |
| **Scenario Lab** | 4 parameter sliders (carbon price, habitat loss, tourism growth, fisheries change), real-time Monte Carlo recalculation (10k simulations), overlay histogram, tornado sensitivity chart, bridge axiom chain impact |
| **Site Scout** | Deferred placeholder (pipeline ready, dashboard pending) |
| **TNFD Compliance** | LEAP disclosure generation, X/14 alignment gauge, per-pillar progress bars, gap analysis, download buttons (Markdown, JSON, Executive Summary) |

**v3 Sidebar:** Mode toggle (Live/Demo), service health panel, site selector, scenario slider, system metadata.

### v2 Page Structure (single-scroll, dark-mode)

| Section | Content |
|---------|---------|
| **Masthead** | MARIS/SEMANTICA branding, site name, IFC Blue Finance and TNFD LEAP badges |
| **Investment Thesis** | Three-paragraph block: MARIS definition, Semantica provenance framework, context graphs concept |
| **Key Metrics** | 4 KPI cards: Annual ESV, Biomass Recovery, NEOLI Score, Climate Buffer |
| **Provenance Chain** | Fixed-position causal graph with 5 layers: Site, Ecological State, Ecosystem Services, Financial Value, Risk |
| **Bridge Axiom Evidence** | Table mapping key axioms (BA-001, BA-002, BA-011 through BA-016) to plain-English meanings and DOI citations |
| **Valuation Composition** | Horizontal bar chart of service breakdown + CI context |
| **Risk Profile** | Monte Carlo distribution (10,000 simulations) + resilience/degradation risk cards |
| **Comparison Sites** | 2x2 grid: Papahanaumokuakea (5/5), Cabo Pulmo (4/5), Shark Bay (4/5), Mesoamerican Reef (1-2/5) |
| **Framework Alignment** | IFC Blue Finance eligible uses + TNFD LEAP four-phase summary |
| **Scaling Intelligence** | Intelligence stack (public data, ecological, financial layers), 4-phase execution roadmap |
| **Ask MARIS** | Natural-language query chat with confidence badges, axiom tags, and evidence tables |
| **Graph Explorer** | Interactive Plotly visualization of the provenance chain from Neo4j |
| **Caveats** | All 7 caveats from the data bundle |

**v2 Sidebar:** Characterized sites, NEOLI alignment breakdown, confidence level slider (P5/Median/P95), methodology note.

### Component Files

**v4 Global Scaling Platform:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `streamlit_app_v4.py` | Main v4 app - page config, CSS, sidebar, 6-tab structure, dynamic site discovery |
| `components/v4/__init__.py` | Package init with shared exports |
| `components/v4/shared.py` | Dynamic site discovery via `get_all_sites()`, tier-aware feature gating, formatters |
| `components/v4/portfolio_overview.py` | Tab: Portfolio grid ($1.62B aggregate), ESV composition, site cards |
| `components/v4/intelligence_brief.py` | Tab: Per-site KPIs, provenance graph, axiom evidence, risk profile |
| `components/v4/graphrag_chat.py` | Tab: Split-panel GraphRAG with pipeline transparency, graph explorer |
| `components/v4/scenario_engine.py` | Tab: Monte Carlo with site-aware axiom chains, tornado chart |
| `components/v4/tnfd_compliance.py` | Tab: TNFD LEAP with LEAPGeneratorV4 for all 9 sites |

**v3 Intelligence Platform:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `streamlit_app_v3.py` | Main v3 app - page config, CSS, sidebar, 5-tab structure |
| `components/v3/__init__.py` | Package init with shared exports (COLORS, formatters, health checks) |
| `components/v3/shared.py` | 26-color palette, V3_CSS, formatters, service health, site data loading |
| `components/v3/intelligence_brief.py` | Tab: KPIs, provenance graph, axiom evidence, valuation, risk profile |
| `components/v3/graphrag_chat.py` | Tab: Split-panel GraphRAG with pipeline transparency |
| `components/v3/scenario_engine.py` | Tab: Interactive Monte Carlo with 4 sliders, tornado chart |
| `components/v3/tnfd_compliance.py` | Tab: TNFD LEAP generation, alignment scoring, downloads |

**v2 Dashboard:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `streamlit_app_v2.py` | Main v2 dashboard - CSS, layout, data sections |
| `components/chat_panel.py` | Ask Nereus query UI with markdown rendering, confidence badges, evidence tables |
| `components/graph_explorer.py` | Plotly network graph with semantic layering (MPA -> Habitat -> Services -> Axioms -> Sources) |
| `components/roadmap_section.py` | Scaling Intelligence section (intelligence stack + execution roadmap), shared between v1 and v2 |

**Shared:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `api_client.py` | HTTP client wrapping MARIS API endpoints; passes Bearer token if `MARIS_API_KEY` is configured; auto-falls back to precomputed responses via TF-IDF keyword matching |
| `precomputed_responses_v4.json` | v4 demo fallback responses for all 9 sites |
| `precomputed_responses.json` | v3 cached responses for 63 queries (fallback when API is offline) |

---

## Strategic Architecture: "The Artifact is the Asset"

The v1 dashboard uses a **static JSON bundle** rather than a live database connection - this is a deliberate architectural choice. In high-stakes investor contexts, zero latency and 100% uptime are non-negotiable. The bundle itself demonstrates that MARIS outputs are portable, immutable, and auditable.

The v2 dashboard extends this with **live querying** - any question the investor asks is answered in real time with full provenance traced through the Neo4j knowledge graph. If the API is unreachable, the dashboard gracefully degrades to 35 precomputed responses (covering all 5 query categories), maintaining the zero-downtime guarantee. The `StaticBundleClient` uses TF-IDF-style keyword overlap scoring (with IDF weighting, geometric mean normalization, and a 0.3 similarity threshold) to match user questions to the best precomputed response. This replaced the earlier SequenceMatcher approach for more robust matching.

---

## Sensitivity Analysis

The dashboard includes a tornado plot component showing parameter sensitivity for total ESV. Each ecosystem service parameter is perturbed using One-at-a-Time (OAT) methodology at +/-10% and +/-20% to identify which services drive the most variance in the headline valuation. Tourism ($25.0M) is typically the dominant parameter.

---

## Data Freshness

The dashboard displays freshness badges next to data-dependent metrics:

- **Current** (green) - measurement data is 5 years old or less
- **Aging** (yellow) - measurement data is between 5 and 10 years old
- **Stale** (red) - measurement data is more than 10 years old

Freshness is derived from the `measurement_year` property on MPA nodes and feeds into the staleness_discount factor in the confidence scoring model.

---

## Design Principles

- **Dark mode**: Navy/slate palette (`#0B1120` background, `#162039` card gradient) - shared across all live versions
- **v4 registry-driven**: All 9 sites auto-discovered from case study files with tier-aware feature gating
- **v3 multi-tab**: Organized into 5 focused tabs for deeper exploration of each domain
- **v2 single-scroll**: Narrative flows from ecology to finance in one continuous page
- **No emojis**: Professional, sober financial tone appropriate for institutional audiences
- **Provenance-first**: Every number traces to a DOI-backed source through explicit bridge axioms
- **Dual-mode operation**: Every v3/v4 tab works in Live (Neo4j + LLM) and Demo (precomputed) modes
- **Market-price methodology**: Actual expenditure data (not contingent valuation or willingness-to-pay)
- **Custom HTML/CSS**: All cards, KPIs, and tables use injected HTML for precise visual control

---

## Dependencies

See `requirements.txt` for v1 (static) or `../requirements-v2.txt` for v2/v3/v4 (live).

Core: streamlit, plotly, numpy, pandas, networkx, requests

## Terminology

- "NEOLI alignment" not "compliance" (the system does not claim NEOLI certification)
- "market-price" not "NOAA-adjusted" for Cabo Pulmo tourism
- ESV = $29.27M, Tourism = $25.0M, Biomass = 4.63x

Commit message:

feat(ui): add confidence transparency expander in Ask Nereus
- graphrag_chat.py: add 'How confidence is computed' expander with methodology
- graphrag_chat.py: _confidence_methodology_markdown() with formula and guardrails
- README.md: document confidence transparency and diligence artifacts

investor_demo/README.md, after:

# Nereus - Investor Demo Dashboards

## Overview

Interactive Streamlit dashboards for the **Nereus provenance-first blue finance platform** (powered by MARIS + Semantica), designed for investor-facing demonstrations. Dark-mode layout with professional financial styling.

**Four operating modes:**

- **v4 (Global Scaling Platform - Latest)** - Registry-driven dashboard spanning 9 MPA sites across 4 ocean basins with a $1.62B combined portfolio. 6 tabs: Portfolio Overview, Intelligence Brief, Ask Nereus (GraphRAG), Scenario Lab, Site Scout, TNFD Compliance. All sites discovered dynamically from `examples/*_case_study.json`. Tier-aware feature gating (Gold/Silver/Bronze).
- **v3 (Intelligence Platform)** - Multi-tab dashboard that makes the P0-P4 backend infrastructure visible and interactive. 5 tabs: Intelligence Brief, GraphRAG Chat, Scenario Lab, Site Scout, TNFD Compliance. Dual-mode operation (Live/Demo) on every tab.
- **v2 (Live)** - Single-scroll dashboard with Neo4j knowledge graph, FastAPI query engine, and interactive graph explorer. Users can ask natural-language questions and see provenance chains rendered in real time.
- **v1 (Static)** - Standalone mode powered by a pre-computed JSON bundle. No external services required - ideal for offline demos or when zero-downtime is critical.

### Dashboard Comparison

| Version | Sites | Tabs | Port | Launch |
|---------|-------|------|------|--------|
| v4 | 9 (auto-discovered) | 6 | 8504 | `./launch.sh v4` |
| v3 | 2 | 5 | 8503 | `./launch.sh v3` |
| v2 | 2 | 2 | 8501 | `./launch.sh v2` |
| v1 | 1 (static) | 1 | 8500 | `./launch.sh v1` |

## Quick Start

### v4 - Global Scaling Platform (Latest)

Requires Neo4j and the MARIS API server for Live mode, or runs standalone in Demo mode. See the [root README](../README.md#nereus-live-query-system) for full backend setup.

```bash
# Using the unified launcher (recommended):
./launch.sh v4

# Or manually:
# 1. Ensure Neo4j is running and the graph is populated (v4: 9 sites)
python scripts/populate_neo4j_v4.py

# 2. Start the API server (in one terminal)
uvicorn maris.api.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000

# 3. Start the v4 dashboard (in another terminal)
cd investor_demo
streamlit run streamlit_app_v4.py --server.port 8504
```

The dashboard opens at `http://localhost:8504`. Toggle between Live and Demo modes in the sidebar. In Demo mode, no external services are required. All 9 MPA sites are discovered dynamically from case study files.

### v3 - Intelligence Platform

```bash
./launch.sh v3
# Or manually:
cd investor_demo
streamlit run streamlit_app_v3.py --server.port 8503
```

The dashboard opens at `http://localhost:8503`. Toggle between Live and Demo modes in the sidebar.

### v2 - Single-Scroll Dashboard

```bash
./launch.sh v2
# Or manually:
cd investor_demo
streamlit run streamlit_app_v2.py
```

The dashboard opens at `http://localhost:8501`. If the API is unreachable, the Ask Nereus panel falls back to precomputed responses automatically.

### v1 - Static Mode

```bash
./launch.sh v1
# Or manually:
cd investor_demo
pip install -r requirements.txt
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```

**Data source:** The bundle at `demos/context_graph_demo/cabo_pulmo_investment_grade_bundle.json`. If missing, run the notebook at `demos/context_graph_demo/cabo_pulmo_investment_grade.ipynb` to generate it.

### Environment Configuration

Copy the template and add your LLM API key:

```bash
cp ../.env.example ../.env
# Edit ../.env: set MARIS_LLM_API_KEY and MARIS_API_KEY
```

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `MARIS_LLM_API_KEY` | API key for your LLM provider (DeepSeek, Claude, or OpenAI) |
| `MARIS_API_KEY` | Bearer token for authenticating with the MARIS API |

> The `.env` file contains secrets (API keys, database passwords) and is excluded from git via `.gitignore`. Never commit it. See `.env.example` for all available settings.

---

## Data Provenance

Every number displayed in the dashboard traces back to curated, DOI-backed source data. The dashboard does not generate or infer financial figures - it renders pre-computed and graph-queried values that originate from six curated datasets:

| Data Source | File | What It Provides to the Dashboard |
|-------------|------|-----------------------------------|
| **Document Registry** | `.claude/registry/document_index.json` | 195 peer-reviewed papers (DOI, title, year, evidence tier) |
| **Cabo Pulmo Case Study** | `examples/cabo_pulmo_case_study.json` | Site metadata, NEOLI assessment, ecosystem service values ($29.27M ESV), biomass recovery (4.63x), species data, trophic network |
| **Bridge Axiom Templates** | `schemas/bridge_axiom_templates.json` | 16 axioms with translation coefficients and DOI-backed evidence |
| **Entity Definitions** | `data/semantica_export/entities.jsonld` | 14 JSON-LD entities (Species, Habitats, Financial Instruments, Frameworks) |
| **Curated Relationships** | `data/semantica_export/relationships.json` | 15 cross-domain edges with quantification and mechanism |
| **Investment-Grade Bundle** | `demos/context_graph_demo/cabo_pulmo_investment_grade_bundle.json` | Pre-computed Monte Carlo results, risk scenarios, framework alignment (used by v1 static mode) |

The v4 and v3 live modes query through the Neo4j graph (populated by `scripts/populate_neo4j_v4.py` for 9 sites). The v2 live mode uses the same graph. The v1 static mode reads directly from the investment-grade bundle JSON.

**Site portfolio:** The v4 platform covers 9 MPA sites across 4 ocean basins with a combined $1.62B portfolio. Each site has a dedicated case study JSON in `examples/` and is auto-discovered by the dashboard via `get_all_sites()` in `shared.py`. Site characterization tiers (Gold/Silver/Bronze) control which features are available per site. See the [Developer Guide](../docs/developer_guide.md#calibration-site-model) for details on adding new sites.

---

## Dashboard Architecture

### v4 Tab Structure (registry-driven, dark-mode)

| Tab | Content |
|-----|---------|
| **Portfolio Overview** | Grid of all 9 MPA sites with ESV, asset rating, habitat type, country, and characterization tier indicators |
| **Intelligence Brief** | Per-site KPIs (4 expandable cards), investment thesis, provenance chain graph, axiom evidence table, valuation composition, Monte Carlo risk profile |
| **Ask Nereus (GraphRAG)** | Split-panel: chat (60%) + reasoning pipeline (40%) showing CLASSIFY -> QUERY -> SYNTHESIZE -> VALIDATE steps with Cypher display, confidence breakdown, and knowledge graph subgraph visualization |
| **Scenario Lab** | Interactive Monte Carlo with site-aware axiom chains, 4 parameter sliders (carbon price, habitat loss, tourism growth, fisheries change), overlay histogram, tornado sensitivity chart |
| **Site Scout** | Deferred placeholder (pipeline ready, dashboard pending) |
| **TNFD Compliance** | TNFD LEAP disclosure with alignment scoring for all 9 sites, per-pillar breakdown (Governance, Strategy, Risk/Impact, Metrics/Targets), gap analysis, download buttons |

**v4 Sidebar:** Mode toggle (Live/Demo), service health panel, site selector (all 9 sites), scenario slider, system metadata.

#### Ask Nereus — confidence transparency

Ask Nereus includes a **“How confidence is computed (full transparency)”** expander.

- Confidence is **provenance-locked** to the visible evidence payload.
- Confidence should be interpreted as **confidence-in-evidence-support for the returned answer**, not a probability that a site-specific valuation number exists.

#### Diligence artifacts

- Report: `ai_docs/audits_and_reports/graphrag_all_sites_invariant_audit_inprocess_postfix_20260219-021927.md`
- CSV: `ai_docs/audits_and_reports/graphrag_all_sites_invariant_audit_inprocess_postfix_20260219-021927.csv`

**Architecture notes:**
- Dynamic site discovery via `get_all_sites()` in `shared.py` - scans `examples/*_case_study.json`
- `LEAPGeneratorV4` auto-discovers all case study files for TNFD disclosure generation
- v4 precomputed responses provide demo fallback when API is offline
- Tier-aware feature gating: Gold sites get full Monte Carlo and provenance; Silver/Bronze get progressively simpler views

### v3 Tab Structure (multi-tab, dark-mode)

| Tab | Content |
|-----|---------|
| **Intelligence Brief** | KPI strip (4 expandable cards), investment thesis, provenance chain graph, axiom evidence table, valuation composition, Monte Carlo risk profile |
| **Ask Nereus (GraphRAG)** | Split-panel: chat (60%) + reasoning pipeline (40%) showing CLASSIFY -> QUERY -> SYNTHESIZE -> VALIDATE steps with Cypher display, confidence breakdown, and integrated graph explorer |
| **Scenario Lab** | 4 parameter sliders (carbon price, habitat loss, tourism growth, fisheries change), real-time Monte Carlo recalculation (10k simulations), overlay histogram, tornado sensitivity chart, bridge axiom chain impact |
| **Site Scout** | Deferred placeholder (pipeline ready, dashboard pending) |
| **TNFD Compliance** | LEAP disclosure generation, X/14 alignment gauge, per-pillar progress bars, gap analysis, download buttons (Markdown, JSON, Executive Summary) |

**v3 Sidebar:** Mode toggle (Live/Demo), service health panel, site selector, scenario slider, system metadata.

### v2 Page Structure (single-scroll, dark-mode)

| Section | Content |
|---------|---------|
| **Masthead** | MARIS/SEMANTICA branding, site name, IFC Blue Finance and TNFD LEAP badges |
| **Investment Thesis** | Three-paragraph block: MARIS definition, Semantica provenance framework, context graphs concept |
| **Key Metrics** | 4 KPI cards: Annual ESV, Biomass Recovery, NEOLI Score, Climate Buffer |
| **Provenance Chain** | Fixed-position causal graph with 5 layers: Site, Ecological State, Ecosystem Services, Financial Value, Risk |
| **Bridge Axiom Evidence** | Table mapping key axioms (BA-001, BA-002, BA-011 through BA-016) to plain-English meanings and DOI citations |
| **Valuation Composition** | Horizontal bar chart of service breakdown + CI context |
| **Risk Profile** | Monte Carlo distribution (10,000 simulations) + resilience/degradation risk cards |
| **Comparison Sites** | 2x2 grid: Papahanaumokuakea (5/5), Cabo Pulmo (4/5), Shark Bay (4/5), Mesoamerican Reef (1-2/5) |
| **Framework Alignment** | IFC Blue Finance eligible uses + TNFD LEAP four-phase summary |
| **Scaling Intelligence** | Intelligence stack (public data, ecological, financial layers), 4-phase execution roadmap |
| **Ask MARIS** | Natural-language query chat with confidence badges, axiom tags, and evidence tables |
| **Graph Explorer** | Interactive Plotly visualization of the provenance chain from Neo4j |
| **Caveats** | All 7 caveats from the data bundle |

**v2 Sidebar:** Characterized sites, NEOLI alignment breakdown, confidence level slider (P5/Median/P95), methodology note.

### Component Files

**v4 Global Scaling Platform:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `streamlit_app_v4.py` | Main v4 app - page config, CSS, sidebar, 6-tab structure, dynamic site discovery |
| `components/v4/__init__.py` | Package init with shared exports |
| `components/v4/shared.py` | Dynamic site discovery via `get_all_sites()`, tier-aware feature gating, formatters |
| `components/v4/portfolio_overview.py` | Tab: Portfolio grid ($1.62B aggregate), ESV composition, site cards |
| `components/v4/intelligence_brief.py` | Tab: Per-site KPIs, provenance graph, axiom evidence, risk profile |
| `components/v4/graphrag_chat.py` | Tab: Split-panel GraphRAG with pipeline transparency, graph explorer |
| `components/v4/scenario_engine.py` | Tab: Monte Carlo with site-aware axiom chains, tornado chart |
| `components/v4/tnfd_compliance.py` | Tab: TNFD LEAP with LEAPGeneratorV4 for all 9 sites |

**v3 Intelligence Platform:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `streamlit_app_v3.py` | Main v3 app - page config, CSS, sidebar, 5-tab structure |
| `components/v3/__init__.py` | Package init with shared exports (COLORS, formatters, health checks) |
| `components/v3/shared.py` | 26-color palette, V3_CSS, formatters, service health, site data loading |
| `components/v3/intelligence_brief.py` | Tab: KPIs, provenance graph, axiom evidence, valuation, risk profile |
| `components/v3/graphrag_chat.py` | Tab: Split-panel GraphRAG with pipeline transparency |
| `components/v3/scenario_engine.py` | Tab: Interactive Monte Carlo with 4 sliders, tornado chart |
| `components/v3/tnfd_compliance.py` | Tab: TNFD LEAP generation, alignment scoring, downloads |

**v2 Dashboard:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `streamlit_app_v2.py` | Main v2 dashboard - CSS, layout, data sections |
| `components/chat_panel.py` | Ask Nereus query UI with markdown rendering, confidence badges, evidence tables |
| `components/graph_explorer.py` | Plotly network graph with semantic layering (MPA -> Habitat -> Services -> Axioms -> Sources) |
| `components/roadmap_section.py` | Scaling Intelligence section (intelligence stack + execution roadmap), shared between v1 and v2 |

**Shared:**

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `api_client.py` | HTTP client wrapping MARIS API endpoints; passes Bearer token if `MARIS_API_KEY` is configured; auto-falls back to precomputed responses via TF-IDF keyword matching |
| `precomputed_responses_v4.json` | v4 demo fallback responses for all 9 sites |
| `precomputed_responses.json` | v3 cached responses for 63 queries (fallback when API is offline) |

---

## Strategic Architecture: "The Artifact is the Asset"

The v1 dashboard uses a **static JSON bundle** rather than a live database connection - this is a deliberate architectural choice. In high-stakes investor contexts, zero latency and 100% uptime are non-negotiable. The bundle itself demonstrates that MARIS outputs are portable, immutable, and auditable.

The v2 dashboard extends this with **live querying** - any question the investor asks is answered in real time with full provenance traced through the Neo4j knowledge graph. If the API is unreachable, the dashboard gracefully degrades to 35 precomputed responses (covering all 5 query categories), maintaining the zero-downtime guarantee. The `StaticBundleClient` uses TF-IDF-style keyword overlap scoring (with IDF weighting, geometric mean normalization, and a 0.3 similarity threshold) to match user questions to the best precomputed response. This replaced the earlier SequenceMatcher approach for more robust matching.

---

## Sensitivity Analysis

The dashboard includes a tornado plot component showing parameter sensitivity for total ESV. Each ecosystem service parameter is perturbed using One-at-a-Time (OAT) methodology at +/-10% and +/-20% to identify which services drive the most variance in the headline valuation. Tourism ($25.0M) is typically the dominant parameter.

---

## Data Freshness

The dashboard displays freshness badges next to data-dependent metrics:

- **Current** (green) - measurement data is 5 years old or less
- **Aging** (yellow) - measurement data is between 5 and 10 years old
- **Stale** (red) - measurement data is more than 10 years old

Freshness is derived from the `measurement_year` property on MPA nodes and feeds into the staleness_discount factor in the confidence scoring model.

---

## Design Principles

- **Dark mode**: Navy/slate palette (`#0B1120` background, `#162039` card gradient) - shared across all live versions
- **v4 registry-driven**: All 9 sites auto-discovered from case study files with tier-aware feature gating
- **v3 multi-tab**: Organized into 5 focused tabs for deeper exploration of each domain
- **v2 single-scroll**: Narrative flows from ecology to finance in one continuous page
- **No emojis**: Professional, sober financial tone appropriate for institutional audiences
- **Provenance-first**: Every number traces to a DOI-backed source through explicit bridge axioms
- **Dual-mode operation**: Every v3/v4 tab works in Live (Neo4j + LLM) and Demo (precomputed) modes
- **Market-price methodology**: Actual expenditure data (not contingent valuation or willingness-to-pay)
- **Custom HTML/CSS**: All cards, KPIs, and tables use injected HTML for precise visual control

---

## Dependencies

See `requirements.txt` for v1 (static) or `../requirements-v2.txt` for v2/v3/v4 (live).

Core: streamlit, plotly, numpy, pandas, networkx, requests

## Terminology

- "NEOLI alignment" not "compliance" (the system does not claim NEOLI certification)
- "market-price" not "NOAA-adjusted" for Cabo Pulmo tourism
- ESV = $29.27M, Tourism = $25.0M, Biomass = 4.63x
